- A shared reference type is written &type, or &'a type when you need to specify an explicit lifetime. Understood & is for shared reference but did not understand what is the difference between type and 'a in Rust language. The 'a reads ‘the lifetime a’. Technically, every reference has some lifetime associated with it, but the compiler lets you elide (i.e. omit, see "Lifetime Elision") them in common cases.
- I found this and this and this and this that explains my question. The 'a reads ‘the lifetime a’. Technically, every reference has some lifetime associated with it, but the compiler lets you elide (i.e. omit, see "Lifetime Elision") them in common cases.
- fn bar<'a>(...)
- A function can have ‘generic parameters’ between the <>s, of which lifetimes are one kind. The <> is used to declare lifetimes. This says that bar has one lifetime, 'a. Rust has two main types of strings: &str and String. The &str are called ‘string slices’. A string slice has a fixed size, and cannot be mutated. It is a reference to a sequence of UTF-8 bytes.
- let greeting = "Hello there."; // greeting: &'static str
- "Hello there." is a string literal and its type is &'static str. A string literal is a string slice that is statically allocated, meaning that it’s saved inside our compiled program, and exists for the entire duration it runs. The greeting binding is a reference to this statically allocated string. Any function expecting a string slice will also accept a string literal.
- [Rust types explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47640550/what-is-a-in-rust-language)
- #rust #types
-